Model-level job_execution_timeout_seconds (#8710)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/core/connect-data-platform/bigquery-setup.md

#### job_execution_timeout_seconds

In older versions of `dbt-bigquery`, this same config was called `timeout_seconds`.

Use the `job_execution_timeout_seconds` configuration to set the number of seconds dbt should wait for queries to complete, after being submitted successfully. Of the four configurations that control timeout and retries, this one is the most common to use.

<VersionBlock lastVersion="1.11">

You can set it in your BigQuery profile (applies to all runs).

</VersionBlock>

<VersionBlock firstVersion="1.12">

> You can set it in your BigQuery profile (applies to all runs) or per model, snapshot, seed, or test. The per-resource value overrides the default value set in the profile level.

Author: @aahel Is it correct that they can also set this in snapshots, seeds, and tests?

Reviewer: yes

#### job_execution_timeout_seconds

In older versions of `dbt-bigquery`, this same config was called `timeout_seconds`.

> Use the `job_execution_timeout_seconds` configuration to set the number of seconds dbt should wait for queries to complete, after being submitted successfully. Of the four configurations that control timeout and retries, this one is the most common to use.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the `job_execution_timeout_seconds` configuration to set the number of seconds dbt should wait for queries to complete after successfully submitting them. Of the four configurations that control timeout and retries, this one is the most common to use.
```

Reviewer 2: Hiya Bianca, 

Just amended this a tad to active voice.

      job_execution_timeout_seconds: 600 # 10 minutes
```

</VersionBlock>

<VersionBlock firstVersion="1.12">

> You can set the `job_execution_timeout_seconds` config in your BigQuery profile. The value set at the profile level becomes the default and applies to all runs. To override this, you can set the config per model, snapshot, seed, or test. The per-resource value overrides the default value set in the profile level.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can set the `job_execution_timeout_seconds` config in your BigQuery profile. The value set at the profile level becomes the default and applies to all runs. To override this default, you can set the config individually per model, snapshot, seed, or test."
```

Reviewer 2: Just amended this slightly as there was a little repetition in the last sentence

  ```yaml
  snapshots:
    - name: my_snapshot
      config:
        job_execution_timeout_seconds: 600
  ```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="tests" label="Tests">

  ```yaml
  models:
    - name: my_model
      columns:
        - name: id
          data_tests:
            - unique:
                config:
                  job_execution_timeout_seconds: 600
  ```

  </TabItem>
  </Tabs>

</VersionBlock>
  
No timeout is set by default. For historical reasons, some query types use a default of 300 seconds when the `job_execution_timeout_seconds` configuration is not set. When you do set the `job_execution_timeout_seconds`, if any dbt query takes more than 300 seconds to finish, the `dbt-bigquery` adapter will run into an exception:

```
 Operation did not complete within the designated timeout.
```

:::caution Note

The `job_execution_timeout_seconds` represents the number of seconds to wait for the [underlying HTTP transport](https://cloud.google.com/python/docs/reference/bigquery/latest/google.cloud.bigquery.job.QueryJob#google_cloud_bigquery_job_QueryJob_result). It _doesn't_ represent the maximum allowable time for a BigQuery job itself. 

> Normally, BigQuery keeps running the job even if this timeout is reached, however `dbt-bigquery` will send a request to BigQuery to cancel it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Normally, BigQuery keeps running the job even if this timeout is reached; however, `dbt-bigquery` will send a request to BigQuery to cancel it.
```

Reviewer 2: Amended for grammar
